# The History of Airem
## Year - 250 B.R.
"The biggest landmass at the time, in size and populace, was not united as it is now. A plethora of tribes, civilizations, and kingdoms thrived in the valleys and hills and the rich, fertile lands of Airem. The Dwarves, Giants and Goliaths took refuge under the shade of the great mountains, while the crafty Gnomes dug deep underground and resided in maze-like dungeons. The Elves formed their elaborate societies inside the hearts of the tropical forests. The deserts to the east raised a number of Khraagfolk tribes, often warring amongst themselves. Men and Halflings built their villages in the cozy valleys and river banks, while some claimed land and fathered kingdoms and empires. Not a soul slept hungry, for the fertile fields provided crop for almost the entire year, and the rivers provided sweet water for the thirsty. Everything was provided for. Such was the magnanimity of Airem!" - *Sir Seryy Greyheart, The Ancient History of Airem: An Unbiased Perspective, Volume 1*

"A man too generous shall end up serving his soul to the Reaper." *- Jerry Wilkins, Notes from the Dungeons*

## Year - 10 B.R.
Slaughter. Blood everywhere. 

Man seemed to have immense desire - desire for wealth, women, intoxication: but desire for power most of all. Blood rained upon Airem, and she wept - wept for her children, her sons - what sin had they committed for them to be punished with death? Her tears flooded the land, the rain never seemed to stop; the men sought refuge and protection - the flooded rivers had changed course! They headed straight towards their kingdoms, which they had so laboriously conquered and reigned upon. The rivers appeared to be sentient beings, fueled by the tears of Airem they wreaked havoc across the continent, snatching back what once belonged to her. The Dwarves flung their large iron gates open and allowed the flood of Humans and Halflings to enter their fortified cities nestled deep inside the mountains. Months flew by - the tears never ceased. The rivers churned and frothed over the rotting decapitated carcasses of her children: goblins, orcs, bugbears and the like (collectively called Khraagfolk)- They were a hinderance to Man's desire for power. A mere stone lying helplessly on the path, only present to be kicked aside. 

## Year - 11 B.R.
The deserts that housed the Khraagfolk contained a secret beneath their mountainous dunes and sandy floor. The Gnomes had been mining beneath the thriving Khraag tribes, unbeknownst to any - mining for Desert Ore, as it was then called. The crafty Gnomes had been experimenting on a substance that could completely transform the political landscape, or so the Gnome spies working for Men reported. Even if the recipe for this substance could not be obtained, such power arriving into the hands of Gnomes would mean trouble. Thus, banners were raised and armies marched - and slaughtered the Khraagfolk living above - conquering the deserts in a matter of weeks. Humans felt no remorse when it came to slaughtering Khraagfolk. Tensions between these factions had been escalating for years. All they needed was an excuse to put an end to it all. 
Khraagfolk had been beastialized to such an extent that the Humans began to believe they were "cleansing" the land, and began to relish this massacre. It was no longer just a war for the Substance. It was an excuse to remove these unintelligent thorns from their paths. 
The spies inside the Gnome factions began eliminating their targets - leading the Gnome warriors above and outside their dungeons - to behold the setting sun - while the banners of Men loomed over them. War was not an option for these Gnomes; they were far too weak, and the secret could not be revealed to Men. At any cost. The Humans were presented with an offer - a peace treaty - 20% of the Powder produced by the Gnomes would be shared with them, in return for peace and the Desert Land, along with all the Desert Ore. The treaty was signed, and then peace seemed to reign over the lands. At least until the Great Floods began tearing the land apart.

## Year - 7 B.R.
It took years for the aftermath of floods to settle down. Things were finally settling down. Airem was going back to normal. Children were once again playing on the roads, merchants began travelling to the cities to peddle their odd goods, the soldiers finally resting after years of war and turmoil. 4 years had passed since the desert treaty. The terms of the treaty had changed over the years. Humans and Gnomes had formed an alliance. The Powder would be produced and shared only by the members of the alliance, and only a select few would have access to the recipe of the Powder. 

