Details of the predatory apparatus of theropods (essentially skull and teeth, forelimbs, and hindlimbs) and their differences among the various theropod clades allow for some speculation as to the diversity of predatory modes of varying types of carnivorous dinosaurs.

- In several aspects theropods retain the primitive condition compared to the remaining clades of dinosaurs. The beaked ornithischians (including armored forms such as stegosaurs and ankylosaurs, the horned and frilled ceratopsians, and the duckbilled hadrosaurids) and the long-necked sauropodomorphs (including the Sauropoda proper, the largest terrestrial animals known) are characterized by derived leaf-shaped teeth with large denticles rather than fine serrations; these morphologies are inferred to indicate a herbivorous diet (Hotton et al., 1997; Holtz et al., 2000; Reisz and Sues, 2000). Theropods, however, retain ziphodont dentitions and oreinirostral skulls. Furthermore, all known theropods were obligate bipeds, while many clades of ornithischian and sauropodomorph dinosaurs convergently evolved a quadrupedal stance.



Although many theropods retained the ancestral conditions of ziphodonty and grasping hands, these morphologies were modified within various subclades. Perhaps the most interesting aspect of theropod history is the fact that modern birds represent the direct descendants of Mesozoic theropods (see Gauthier and Gall (2001) for a substantial review). Many anatomical features unique to birds among living animals (such as furculae (wishbones) and air sacs) are widely distributed among extinct theropods. Indeed, recent discoveries from the Lower Cretaceous deposits of Liaoning, China, demonstrate that many clades of coelurosaurian theropods (including dromaeosaurids, therizinosauroids, oviraptorosaurs, and compsognathids) possessed broad feathers and/or simple filamentous integument over much of the body.

When theropods first appeared in the Late Triassic they represented mid-sized carnivores, considerably smaller than various other archosaurian predators that shared their communities (Heckert and Lucas, 2000). However, most of the theropods' competitors disappeared by the end of the Triassic (Sereno, 1997, 1999), and throughout the Jurassic and Cretaceous predatory dinosaurs comprised the sole group of largebodied terrestrial predators. (It should be noted, however, that potential theropod-killers existed in the form of aquatic crocodyliforms from the Cretaceous of northern Africa (Sereno et al., 2001) and North America (Schwimmer, in press) of sizes rivalling the largest carnivorous dinosaurs).

some workers have suggested that at least some large theropods (in particular, tyrannosaurids) were primarily or exclusively scavengers on both theoretical ecological (Colinvaux, 1978) and ecomorphological (Horner and Lessem, 1993) grounds.

these arguments do raise the more general issue: how does a paleontologist distinguish a predation event from a scavenging event from fossil remains? This difficulty is due to the fact that scavenging events generally result in the same physical remains as successful predation events: that is, the food item is a set of dead bones and soft tissues at the end of feeding.

These include examining the theropod tooth marks to see if one set (from one taxon) were always cross-cut by a second set (which would have therefore fed after the initial feeder) and examining the bones of the food item for signs of non-predator generated fatal pathologies (such as trampling marks and breaks) which suggest the food item had suffered lethal injuries not produced by a carnivore.

