The adventure begins with 3 out of the 4 players already in prison, the last of them is being captured.

# Opening Sequence: 
You are surrounded by armored men and women, swathed in drenched blue cloaks and carrying long pointed spears... aimed at you. Its pouring outside, muffling the din and commotion around you. You hear the clanks and screeches of heavy iron armor, and the loud growls and snarls of mudbarkers.
With blurry eyes you see a ==man== bark orders at the others, *"Arrest that bastard in the name of the hero, he has wronged me!"*
Screaming, shouting and flailing arms doesn't accomplish anything as the guards throw you across the streets and stomp on you. Thunder cackles across the sky as a wagon appears, and its rattling wheels grind to a halt before your pitiful state. A plump man wearing a blue uniform jumps out of it, water splashing at his heels. He walks with stoic confidence. The charioteer jumps off immediately, fumbling with an umbrella and rushes to the man. 
The guards, startled and silenced by his appearance, bow down and make way for him. He leans in closer to your face, and speaks in a soft, chilling tone - *"I'm sure you're surprised, with the sudden stomping, charging and going on here. But if I were you, I'd save my surprise for later. You are hereby arrested lawfully, under the Count Thornhold's orders. The Bluebearer shall be considered the witness of your crimes. Carry him. Kill him if he doesn't comply."* He puts his hat back on and moves back. As rain once again falls on your face, blood and water mix on your skin, dripping from your fingers and hair strands. Rough hands seize you by your arms and legs and toss you into an iron cage, shackled to a large wagon. The men talk and laugh amongst themselves and pull out a collar, they slap you, choke you, force the thing around your neck, when it finally clicks in place. The man in the uniform is nowhere to be seen. 
*"I heard he'll be sent straight to Barrack-E, been a while, eh? Haha"* 

What happened next is blurry in your mind. The constant prodding and poking, the shouts and curses - all to keep you from falling asleep amid the arrest, had begun to blur your vision. The reception hall, the guards and workers - all in blue, the plump man who turned out to be the prison warden, all seemed alien and unfamiliar. After a humiliating full body search, numerous documents processed, and all your belongings snatched away, two guards in blue drag you down dimly lit, concrete stairs leading to the basement and open a large doorway. They whisper to you, "*This is Barrack-E. You'll learn the ways of the prisoners soon enough. While I have been ordered to explain the rules and laws of the prison, I find it largely unnecessary. You won't need it. You'll be out of here soon enough*". The guards shove you inside the cell - you fall with a loud thud, your shoulders and ribs ache, all the muscles in your body seem to have become lead. Cold hard stone touches your face. The guards toss a blanket over your limp body and an aluminum mug, with a brush inside. *"You're inmates are out having dinner in the cafeteria. You'll see them soon enough. Pray you won't get murdered on your first day here.*"
The guards smirk at each other and lock the thick giant doors behind you.

# Introducing The Other Players:


